EDIP VERSION 1e 22/Jan/2011 20:55

1) will open an Einstein extended disk image
2) and show directory of files within the image
3) extract files from the disk image to a PC storage medium
   i.e. MS Windows Folder on a hard drive
4) create a blank disk image from existing image
   using the original disk image's system tracks
5) insert files into a newly created disk image
   from a PC folder
6) extract a copy of an Einstein disk image's system tracks
   to a PC folder
7) extract a raw image of just all disk image's sectors to a
   PC folder in the order of the operating system's DOS.

Upgrades and bug fixes from previous versions.

EXTRACTED FILES CORRECTLY SIZED
Disk Image files are now extracted correctly to the smallest
number of 128 byte records. Instead of to the smallest
number of 2kb blocks.

Extracted files will now have added to their extension
_EDIPv1e_ Plus DOS type
i.e. myfile.txt_EDIPv1e_XTAL
     myfile.txt_EDIPv1e_ZDOS
     myfile.txt_EDIPv1e_CPM2
     myfile.txt_EDIPv1e_CHECK or myfile.txt_EDIPv1e_NO_CHECK
All files extracted into the PC environment will be in MS DOS format
DOS type only indicates the original disc images system it will not
restrict insertion of the file into a newly EDIP created images with
a different DOS type.
For an unrecognized DOS the CPM check box will not be greyed out
the user will then need to judge whether the Image's dos is of the XTAL or
CPM type. If wrongly used the file will be corrupt and will not run in
the Einstein or under Einstein Emulation. The user should then try
using the CPM check Box with a different setting for extracting files.
Files extracted with the CPM box ticked will have "_EDIPv1e_CHECK" added
to filename extension. Un ticked "_EDIPv1e_NO_CHECK" will be  added to
filename extension.

DELETED FILES
Files that have been deleted during Einstein run time
conditions (i.e Einstein emulation or in the physical
Einstein) will be shown prefixed with four exclamation marks
in the image directory i.e. !!!!MYFILE.XBS.

Files with the prefix "!!!!" would have been intended to be deleted 
by the original floppy disk owner before a disk image was made of it.
In some cases the file can be extracted by EDIP to an original file make up.
Other files with the prefix "!!!!" could have had their original allocated
sectors over written by new files written to disk after deletion. The user
must be aware that not all "!!!!" prefixed files can be salvaged. The only
way to test "!!!!" prefixed files are not corrupt is to use them under run
time conditions.   

ICON ON THE TASK BAR and ADDED WINDOW
EDIP now opens a window with a black back ground. When a
disk image is opened the dialogue box holding its directory
will be positioned on the window.

CP/M 2.2 and ZDOS Disc Images
These files use a different format in the directory of extents
in the extended disk image for allocating blocks than XTAL.
Previous EDIP versions did not take this fully into account
small files apparently were extracted or inserted ok for use
but larger files became corrupted. This has now been fixed.

THE CPM CHECK BOX
In previous EDIP versions the CPM check box in EDIP was needed by
the user when the image's O/S is known. Left unchecked for Xtal
systems ticked for CP/M and ZDOS. An exception to this were blank
images created and distributed with EDIP. Copies of these images
made with EDIP for inserting files would automatically have the
check box configured and greyed out for the correct operating system.

*EDIP version 1e now reads specific areas in the system tracks of
an opened disk image to identify known DOSs and set the CPM check
box automatically.
Known DOSs Recognized
TATUNG/XtalDOS 1.11
XtalDOS 1.31,
XtalDOS 2.05,
CP/M 2.2 EINSTEIN ver 1.2,
Zdos 1.61,
Tatung Xtal DOS80

DISK IMAGE DETAILS DROP DOWN BOX
VERSION 1e
1: will display known DOS of Image + original software that
created the image i.e.
"DOS XtalDOS 2.05   Origin CPDRead v3.24"
2: will display confirmation for extended image file.
If it is a copy created by EDIP
"EXTENDED CPC DSK File- EDIP COPY  OK"
For an original disk image.
"EXTENDED CPC DSK File- Disk-Info OK"
3: Tracks per Side
4: Sectors per Track
5: Sector Size bytes
6: Sides per disc
7: FLOPPY DRIVE Sides Used
note: 1:Some disk images can be corrupted by being twice the size
      they should be.
      2:Some Einstein users added a hardware switch to use both
      sides of a 3.5 floppy for single side side format.
8: Side 1 1st track Sector Sequence
9: For double side disks Side 2 1st track Sector Sequence
note: Side 2 1st track Sector Sequence will only be shown for
      double side discs.
      Sector numbers for side 2 usually incremented from side 1.
      Sector scew can vary. Some Einstein users have modified
      FORMAT.COM to create their own sector scew.
      Disc Images created by EinTrans do not have sectors scewed.

Drive Configuration
A new feature added since version 1d is the drive
configuration shown in EDIP's disk details drop down box. example "Drives
Configured S40 S40 S40 S40" Reading from left to right the first "S40" will mean
boot drive 0/A is single side 40 track format. The second, third and forth S40
would mean dives 1/B 2/C 3/D would also be side 40 track format. Each settings
could be different and shown as S40 single side 40 track, D40 double side 40
track, S80 single side 80 track, D80 double side 80 track.

Note for use Within the system tracks of an Einstein floppy disk and an extended
disk image made from it there is one byte which according to its value will
initial disk parameter blocks and disk header blocks when loaded into RAM to
read and write up to four differently formatted floppy drives.

The Einstein computer has the ability to read and write to floppy drives
configured for single side 40 track, single side 80 track, single side 80 track
and double side 80 track . Up to four floppy drives can all be set to a
different setting for sides and tracks according to to the byte in the boot
disk.

EDIP version 1e displays the drive configuration in the drop down disk image
details box. Example "Drives Configured S40 S40 S40 S40" will be shown for the
standard Einstein format used with the original one or two single side only flip
over three inch floppy drives built into the Einstein TC01 when purchased.

With a mix of original single side only, flip over three inch floppy drives for
the Einstein and modern double side floppy drives, a boot disk could miss match
the format configuration for a particular four drive set up. e.g. configure a
single side only three inch drive as a double side disk. For those new to the
Einstein with a mix of drives it is recommended that they use only disk images
which configure all Einstein floppy drives to single side 40 track for creating
boot disks.

Examples "Drives Configured S40 S40 S40 S40" A safe mode for all mixed drive set
ups.


"Drives Configured S40 S40 D80 D80" This configuration could have been
transferred to a single side three inch boot floppy. It is a safe mode where
drive 0/A and 1/B are the original single side floppy drives built into the
Einstein TC01. Later three and a half inch drives can be added to the external
floppy drive port for double side 80 track format.

"Drives Configured D80 D80 D80 S40" This configuration will not work where the
boot drive is a single side only three inch drive. The configuration needs
manually for the Einstein TC01 to be opened up and the hardware settings for
floppy drives to be altered so at least the boot drive 0/A is an external three
and a half inch drive and one internal or external single side only three inch
drive is 3/D. This will enable one double side floppy and one three inch single
side floppy to be read. Ideally three three and half inch drives should be
attached externally and one three inch internal drive set to 3/C. This set up
has been popular with einstein users who are transferring all their Einstein
software to double side 80 track floppies and want to keep the option of three
inch floppy drive access for further transfers.

"SYS" BUTTON Extract a copy of an Einstein disk image's system tracks. Twenty
sectors of the first two tracks are extracted from the disk image to a file in a
windows folder. The file name will be the same as the disk image it is extracted
from. The file extension will be SYS_Einstein. Example disk image name
"name.dsk" extracted file "name.SYS_EINSTEIN".

"RAW" BUTTON Extracts a file from the disk image into a windows folder of all
sectors and only sectors. Extended disk image header and track headers are
excluded. The sectors are in order of the way they would be accessed by the
Einstein computer. Sectors are in sequence according to track by track order and
sector ID eliminating sector scew. The file name will be the same as the disk
image it is extracted from. The file extension will RAW_EINSTEIN. Example disk
image name "name.dsk" extracted file "name.RAW_EINSTEIN".



