CHASE

Cross Chase is somehow similar to Daleks / Gnome Robots. You need to lure your pursuers into the mines.
The main difference is that it is a real-time game and that it has several secrets items and power-ups to pick.
Similarly to Shoot, at the end of each level or in boss levels, you are confronted by a boss (a skull), which can only be killed by a few bullets fired by the gun item.
You can complete the level by killing the skull before the last enemy and by doing so you unlock extra items and secrets in the next levels.
Destroying the missile bases can also unlock items.
You can move in 4 directions and shoot with fire (if you have collected the gun item).

REMARK:
This game is part of Cross-Lib: https://github.com/Fabrizio-Caruso/CROSS-LIB

Go to its GitHub page for updates and new games.

Cross-Lib's licence applies to this game.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-LIB'S LICENCE

This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied warranty.
In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages arising from
the use of this software.

Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for non-commercial applications, 
subject to the following restrictions:

1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not
claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software in
a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be
appreciated but is not required.

2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not
be misrepresented as being the original software.

3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.

For example I do not authorize selling hardware, software, firmware or any other product that contains any part of Cross-Lib and/or its games (e.g., pre-loaded disks, tapes, cartridges, etc.).
On the other hand I authorize people to load the games in the most convenient way for their personal use.
