SHOOT

Shoot is a shooter somehow similar to Robotron. You have to kill a horde of ghosts on each level.
You can kill them by hitting them many times or by hitting them enough times to push them against the walls (mortal only for them).
You can also kill them by placing mines but you need to get the mine item (with 3 mines). A mine kills instantly common enemies.
At the end of each level when only few ghosts are left or if you survive without killing enemies long enough or in boss levels, you are confronted by some hard-to-kill skulls.
Optionally you can complete the level by killing the skulls before the last ghosts and by doing so you unlock extra items and secrets in the next levels.
Destroying the missile bases can also unlock items.
The game has many secrets and items to discover.
You move in the 4 directions and shoot with fire.

REMARK:
This game is part of Cross-Lib: https://github.com/Fabrizio-Caruso/CROSS-LIB

Go to its GitHub page for updates and new games.

Cross-Lib's licence applies to this game.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-LIB'S LICENCE

This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied warranty.
In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages arising from
the use of this software.

Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for non-commercial applications, 
subject to the following restrictions:

1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not
claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software in
a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be
appreciated but is not required.

2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not
be misrepresented as being the original software.

3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.

For example I do not authorize selling hardware, software, firmware or any other product that contains any part of Cross-Lib and/or its games (e.g., pre-loaded disks, tapes, cartridges, etc.).
On the other hand I authorize people to load the games in the most convenient way for their personal use.

