SNAKE

Snake is my personal interpretation of a hybrid game between Nibbler (arcade game) and the Nokia Snake game to which I have added more game elements. 
As in Nibbler the walls do not kill you and can be used to stop you and let you better control your movements.
As in Nokia Snake the main goal is to eat apples. If you do not eat any apple for too long, the snake becomes faster and harder to control and ultimately consume its energy.
In each level you are also confronted with mines that kill you if the snake's head touches them.
As a secondary goal you can collect rings. If you manage to get 3 or more rings without dying on a level, you will be rewarded with bonus items.
Use the fire button to start the game.
You move in the 4 directions and shoot with fire.

REMARK:
This game is part of Cross-Lib: https://github.com/Fabrizio-Caruso/CROSS-LIB

Go to its GitHub page for updates and new games.

Cross-Lib's licence applies to this game.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-LIB'S LICENCE

This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied warranty.
In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages arising from
the use of this software.

Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for non-commercial applications, 
subject to the following restrictions:

1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not
claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software in
a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be
appreciated but is not required.

2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not
be misrepresented as being the original software.

3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.

For example I do not authorize selling hardware, software, firmware or any other product that contains any part of Cross-Lib and/or its games (e.g., pre-loaded disks, tapes, cartridges, etc.).
On the other hand I authorize people to load the games in the most convenient way for their personal use.
